<h1>Simplex Method Program</h1>
<h2>Background on The Simplex Method</h2>
<p>Simplex method, standard technique in linear programming for solving an optimization problem, typically one involving a function and several constraints expressed as inequalities. The inequalities define a polygonal region, and the solution is typically at one of the vertices. The simplex method is a systematic procedure for testing the vertices as possible solutions.</br>

Some simple optimization problems can be solved by drawing the constraints on a graph. However, this method is useful only for systems of inequalities involving two variables. In practice, problems often involve hundreds of equations with thousands of variables, which can result in an astronomical number of extreme points. In 1947 George Dantzig, a mathematical adviser for the U.S. Air Force, devised the simplex method to restrict the number of extreme points that have to be examined. The simplex method is one of the most useful and efficient algorithms ever invented, and it is still the standard method employed on computers to solve optimization problems.</br>

<h3>Optimization: The simplex method</h3>
First, the method assumes that an extreme point is known. (If no extreme point is given, a variant of the simplex method, called Phase I, is used to find one or to determine that there are no feasible solutions.) Next, using an algebraic specification of the problem, a test determines whether that extreme point is optimal. If the test for optimality is not passed, an adjacent extreme point is sought along an edge in the direction for which the value of the objective function increases at the fastest rate. Sometimes one can move along an edge and make the objective function value increase without bound. If this occurs, the procedure terminates with a prescription of the edge along which the objective goes to positive infinity. If not, a new extreme point is reached having at least as high an objective function value as its predecessor. The sequence described is then repeated. Termination occurs when an optimal extreme point is found or the unbounded case occurs. Although in principle the necessary steps may grow exponentially with the number of extreme points, in practice the method typically converges on the optimal solution in a number of steps that is only a small multiple of the number of extreme points.</p>

<h2>The program itself does the following:</h2>

<p>The program performs the Simplex Method on a linear programming problem of the form:</br></br>
Maximization z = c^Tx,</br>
subject to Ax ≤ b:</br>
where xi ≥ 0 and bi ≥ 0 for all i.</br></br> The program takes in the inputs: the coefficient of the objective function, c, the coefficient matrix of constraints, A and right-hand side of constraints, b. The program constructs the initial simplex tableau, and iterates the simplex method on the tableau until either the problem is found to be unbounded, or a unique solution is reached, or multiple solutions are found. The solution is only be in terms of the original variables. If the problem is unbounded,the program returns 0 (return 0). If a unique solution is reached, the program returns a solution x and objective value z  (return x, z). If multiple solutions are found, the program returns the first optimal solution x, the second optimal solution y and the objective function value z (return x, y, z)</p>
